--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
   				      Exam
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
This folder contains the files for the exam in the Practical Programming and
Numerical Methods course at Aarhus University, spring 2021.

My student number is 201706760, so the number of the assignment to be solved is
60 % 22 = 16.


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
   16: Adaptive recursive integrator with subdivision into three subintervals
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Implement a (one-dimensional) adaptive recursive integrator (open or closed
quadrature, at your choice) which at each iteration subdivides the interval not
into two, but into three sub-intervals. Reuse points. Compare with the adaptive
integrator from your homework.


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
   				    Method
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
The method is based on the "Numerical Integration"-PDF.

The adaptive quadrature is an algorithm for which the integration interval is
subdivided into adaptively refined subintervals until a given accuracy goal is
reached. For this project, the given number of subintervals is 3, thus in order
to subdivide total interval [a, b] into three for then to use the quadrature on
the half-intervals, one needs to choose the points x_i, which will will become

			    x_i = {1/6, 3/6, 5/6}.

From these points weights w_i can be calculated using the trapezium rule,

	  [[   1        1        1    ]      [[ w_1 ]      [[  1  ]
	   [  x_1      x_2      x_3   ]   *   [ w_2 ]   =   [ 1/2 ]   ,
	   [  x_1^2    x_2^2    x_3^2 ]]      [ w_3 ]]      [ 1/3 ]]

yielding

			    w_i = {3/8, 2/8, 3/8},

and likewise from the rectangle rule

			    v_i = {1/3, 1/3, 1/3}.

The the above the points and weights, x_i's and w_i's, are cited for the
rescaled integration interval [0, 1], and the transformation of the points and
weights to the original interval [a, b] is given as

	    x_i -> a + (b - a)/x_i,      and      w_i -> (b - a)w_i.


Now, subdividing into three subintervals, Q_i, in a uniform partition in the
interval [a, b] yields the integration intervals

		a < c = a + (b - a)/3 < d = a + 2(b - a)/3 < b,

and thus the following integral

     int_a^b f(x) dx = int_a^c f(x) dx + int_c^d f(x) dx + int_d^b f(x) dx.
		      |_______________| |_______________| |_______________|
			     Q_1	       Q_2		 Q_3


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
   				   Structure
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
This folder (/ExamProject/) is the main folder of the exam project, it contains:

  - main.c: The code running and testing the tri-subinterval adaptive and
	    recursive integration routine.

  - README: This file.







  - lib: Folder containing the binary search routine and the bi-linear
         interpolating routine (the goal of this project)
	
  - plot.*.gpi: The gnuplot code plotting the animated gif (ani) and the still
                svg image (svg) of the result of the bi-linear interpolation
	
  - out.*
      - ani.gif: Animated gif of the data and interpolated results. Shows a full
                 rotation of the figure.

      - img.svg: Still image of the data and interpolated results.

      - data.txt: Data generated in main.exe via a helper function. Follows
                  z = x^2 - y^2.

      - binterp.txt: The interpolated data points generated by the bi-linear
                     interpolation routine.
